
# pysanskritv1

This contains conjugation algorithms (in test2.py) developed in 2016 to
compare the forms generated by Dhaval Patel's work, as described in
https://github.com/funderburkjim/elispsanskrit.

*This version of test2.py is used as a basis for pysanskritv2.*

## check
python3 test2.py conjugation_test.txt > conjugation_test_log.txt

The conjugation_test.txt file contains many precomputed conjugations from
the elispsankrit code.  These conjugations are recomputed by the current
test2.py code, and compared to the precomputed conjugations.

Currently, there are 461 examples in total.
Of these, 440 show agreement between the original elisp conjugation and
  the current test2.py conjugations.
There are 21 disagreements.

Examination of these 21 disagreements suggests that the current
computation is to be preferred over the original elisp version.

## conjugate_file_v1.py
python3 conjugate_file_v1.py INPUT OUTPUT
This uses the sl_conjtab function within test2.py to compute conjugations.
The INPUT file contains lines with 2 or 3 tab-delimited fields:
* model  class,voice,tense
* root
* refs   a reference string; optional. 

The output shows the model, root, and conjugation as a colon-delimited string. For example:
```
1,a,pre BU      Bavati:BavataH:Bavanti:Bavasi:BavaTaH:BavaTa:BavAmi:BavAvaH:BavAmaH
```

## conjugate_one_v1.py
This is a command-line program based on conjugate_file_v1.py;  the conjugation table
is printed in readable form.  For example:
```
python3 conjugate_one_v1.py 1,a,pre BU
# output is:
Conjugation of 1,a,pre BU
3p Bavati BavataH Bavanti
2p Bavasi BavaTaH BavaTa
1p BavAmi BavAvaH BavAmaH

```

The output can also be shown as a table in Github markdown:
```
python3 conjugate_one_v1.py 1,a,pre BU md
# output is
Conjugation of 1,a,pre BU

|Case|S|D|P|
|-|-|-|-|
|3p|Bavati|BavataH|Bavanti|
|2p|Bavasi|BavaTaH|BavaTa|
|1p|BavAmi|BavAvaH|BavAmaH|
```
The output is rendered as:

Conjugation of 1,a,pre BU

|Case|S|D|P|
|-|-|-|-|
|3p|Bavati|BavataH|Bavanti|
|2p|Bavasi|BavaTaH|BavaTa|
|1p|BavAmi|BavAvaH|BavAmaH|

